# RxTree

The superior therapeutic effects of synergistic combination therapy have been discovered in treating multiple types of cancers and it is of high clinical value to accurately identify the synergistic combinations via shared or similar underlying biological mechanisms. However, not all possible drug combinations can be realistically tested on patients in real clinical trials. In the manuscript, Probabilistic Learning of Treatment Trees in Cancer (Yao et al., 2022), we address this unmet translational research need by proposing a novel Bayesian probabilistic tree-based framework, referred to as treatment trees (Rx-tree), to investigate the hierarchical relationships between treatments. This repository contains the code for the manuscript and we further visualize the result through an R-shiny application in [https://yaots.shinyapps.io/RxTreePDX] (https://yaots.shinyapps.io/RxTreePDX). 

The model estimation is decoupled into (i) Euclidean parameters estimation by the approximated Bayesian computation (ABC) and (ii) tree parameters estimation by Metropolis-Hastings algorithm (MH) and we implemented four R scripts, names as “ABC_SyntheticData.R”, “Inference.R”, “Tree_Summary.R”, and “Visualization.R” to estimate the Rx-tree and the corresponding iPCP. To conduct the ABC, we first run the “ABC_SyntheticData.R” to generate the synthetic data with a large sample size Nsyn. Given the synthetic data and the observed data, “Inference.R” compares the summary statistics of synthetic data and the observed data, infers the posterior samples of Euclidean parameters and summarize the Euclidean parameters. Conditional on the posterior median of the Euclidean parameters, the “Inference.R” follows the MH algorithm and generates the posterior tree samples. Given posterior tree samples, “Tree_Summary.R” summarizes the posterior tree samples with MAP tree and calculates the iPCP for any subset of treatments of interest and the “Visualization.R” visualizes the results from the “Tree_Summary.R” as the Figures 5 and 6 in the Main paper. We demonstrate the code in the following sections with the data from Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research PDX Encyclopedia (NIBR-PDXE; Gao et al., 2015 and Rashid et al., 2020) and replicate the Figures 5 and 6 in the Main paper.

